1. Introduce yourself
   My name is Yuchen, which you already know. I went to University of Vxx in 2011 and got my masters degree in 2013. 
   During which, I did 8 months coop term in Rx, now it's called Bxxx. When I was there, I was a software developer. 
   It was in Ottaxx. So after my coop term, I found another job in Ottawa, it was Acxx-luxx. I have been working there
   for 3 years as a software test engineer. Now Alxx is bought by Noxxx. So that's my work experience. Since I have been
   working as a software tester for 3 years, a little bit tired, now I want to switch to a software developer position. 
   I know Java and I'm good at data structure and algorithms. I'm detail-oriented and I know how to do quality assurance.
   So I think I can be a good candidate for this position.

2. Introduce your work at Noxxx
   First I think I need to introduce my department first. We are the most money making department in Axxxx. We do Axx's most famous
   software router. It's the very big ones, the router used by ATT, verizon, T-mobile that kind of router. 
   My team provides quality assurance to the software running on the router. It's a big produce line, so each one of
   us is responsible for a few products. 
   I have 2 main roles, first one is to test new software features introduced and new code 
   committed. I need communicate with product manager, developers, to make sure we understand the customers' requirement correctly. 
   Then I will write test plans for the features, writing code for test automations to performance kind of test cases. Looking for 
   bugs, run regression tests, etc. 
   Second one is to test the performance of the router, I need to make sure its best performance that no packets will be corrupted 
   during traffic transmission. And also no packets should be dropped. I need to write code for hardware auto configuration, service
   configuration, traffic flowing. And also write code simulating kinds of situations and control the chips threshold. 

3. Introduce your work at Blxxx
   When I was there, my team was responsible for providing software for bb factories. You know at that time, bb's market was still not
   as bad as now. Their factory needs to manufacture hundreds of products. The factory needs a lot of software to do manufactoring and
   testing for their assembly lines. So we wrote software and maintain existing software for them. 
   For me, I had 2 main roles, first one was responsible for a few older products, maintain the existing software. When our customer 
   the factory ask for a requirement, for example, they need change a specific configuration, I would update the code for them.
   Of course I need to guarantee nothing would be broken by my code change.
   My second role was to write some software at my spare cycle. Looking for what kind of thing that everyone in our team can benefit
   from. Duding then I wrote a windows background service running on a server to do the log file cleaning. 
   
   SubQuestion: Can you describe the software? 
   There are tons of log generated everyday for a big department. Before that the manager needs to manually delete those files.
   The file structure was super complicated, a log of folders, folders nested with folders, different kinds of files in each level.
   Some files are hidden, some files needs certain privilege to delete. Managers need to check the log when it's created. For example,
   logs created 3 months ago should be deleted but if any single file in that nested folder was ever viewed by someone, files in that
   folder should be protected.
   So I wrote a clean up service running on the server that will start itself automatically to do that cleaning. The user can have
   options to choose which folder they want to clean, how old the files needs to be deleted, the log file destination. 
   It has a lot of things to consider when developing, such as, someone is currently reading a file, old folder has new files, 
   new folder has old files, what if the service can't finish its job in 24 hours and then a new service is restarted. 
   
4. Introduce your work at Vicxxx
   I was a research assistant then. My supervisor had a project about improving current OFDM system which based on 802.11a, of course
   now no one would use that. We need to build the packets according to the 11a specification. Then build kinds of modules 
   multiplexer, demultiplexer kind of things to simualtion the signal transmitting. The idea of this project is to use polar 
   coordinate instead the regular cartesian coordinate, which could save a lot of calculation of the system. We also combined soft 
   decoder inside of regular hard decoder to get a 3dm performance improvement. We also try something more that instead of floating 
   point calculation, we used fixed point and explored the minimum digits we can use for different situations but can also guarantee 
   the system's performance.

5. What is your strength?
   My strengh is that I am a self - starter, I don't need any supervision. I will always work my best and hardest to
   finish my tasks. I know my responsbility and I'm proud of owning my responsibility. 
   Second I have the enthusasim to learn, I'm always full of energy to improve myself. 
   
6. What is your weakness
   My weakness is that I'm kinda giving myself too much pressure. Not pressure from work, it's the pressure from family, 
   from friends, afraid to left hind, afraid can't afford a house. Sometimes got bad mood because of that, can't enjoy life. 
   
7. What is your most successful project? / something you are most proud of
   The project I'm most proud of is that during my work at Nxxx, I wrote a big code automation that can save a lot of effort.
   Before I took that part of testing, every time we introduce a new module, I need to do a lot of manual configurations and write 
   some code specifically for it. Then I used my spare time to write an interface to accept all kinds of modules, every new module
   introduced, I just need to write some basic information into it. And I subtracted the things in common and tests in common as
   a whole, integrate them together. And I integrated the performance check tests that makes checking performance a standard.
   So after I build the system, I can save a lot of time testing new modules.
   
8. What was your biggest challenge?
   Well, my biggest challenge was that when I first got hired by Axxxxxx, there was a probation period. I was given 2 month time to 
   finish my first project. I was a fresh graduate then and I didn't know anything about the work my team was doing. They wanted to 
   check if I am a fast learner. So I did my best, reading code to learn the APIs and the coding conventions here, checking twikis
   about things I need to consider, asking people the logic behind the code and asking people about the knowledge of our product,
   writing notes, working overtime to write my own code. So I proved my ability to learn fast and I managed to finish the project
   from scrach to release. 

9. Why do you choose our company?
   Everyone knows xxxx is a great company, it's one of the best companies in the world. If I can get an offer, I can work on a
   something used by millions of people every second. I can learn the lastest techonology. I can work together with most talented
   people in this world. 
   
10. What can you bring to us?
    My sense of responsibility. I am a person having a very high standard of myself and want to make my release perfect and free of 
    bugs. I will feel a shame to fail release and not working my best. I've been doing software testing for 3 years, I know how
    to quality control and make my code less bugs. 

11. Why do you want to switch to a software developer? 
    Having been working as a software test engineer, I'm a little bit tired. 50% of my word was writing code automations, I like the
    feeling to write code. I like the feeling to create things. I think I like to be a developer better.

12. How can you improve your coding ability?
    For example, during my work, when I have spare time, I don't relax. I would read other people's code, assuming if I were them,
    how I would write my code here. And we do code reviews, I can get feedback from other people, this really helps a lot.  
    I would also spend quite a lot of time to read API documents. The more I'm familiar with it, I can write better code. 

13. Why should we hire u? / why do u think urself a good fit for this position?
    I have worked in a big company for 3 years. So I know how to teamwork with coworkers, how to interact with deverlopers, 
    testers, product managers things like that. I know how to write code of a certain standard. I know how to provide quality
    control and decrease the chance of bugs.

14. Tell me about your teamwork / leadership experience
    Once my team was suddenly notified that we shoud deliver a feature in a month. That was so rush because we are usually 
    notified at least 3 months before release. So I and another team member rose to the accasion. We two took the project 
    and collaborate. He knows configuring the hardware better and I know the feature related knowledge better. 
    Then he wrote the configuring part of the code first then gave them to
    me. I then build my code on top of his, to test the feature. At last, we managed to finish that in time. 
    
    (If not enough, make up an example helping another new guys guiding him through a project.)

15. How would other people describe you?
    People describe me a person with sense of responsibilities. They can trust me and rely on me.
    
16. Plans about ur career growth path?
    I want to be a coding master/a top software tester.
   
17. Tell me a time that ur failed?

18. What is your biggest failure?

19. 你有没有遇到过deadline来不及的情况，你怎么解决的？

20. 你发现你组里一个组员的任务实际上来不及赶上deadline了，你懂他负责的这块，他可能没有你懂，却以为来得及。
    你们的老板不清楚情况，你该怎么做?

21. 你想用A方法来实现你负责的这块任务，你老板让你用B方法，但你觉得其实A方法更好，你怎么办?

22. 你遇到一个问题，有方案A和方案B，必须选一个。它们互有利弊。你时间有限，无法花太多时间考虑，你应该怎么做?
    
23. 一个如果项目中有很多bug，但是deadline快到期了，你会怎么办? 如果这些bug不重要呢？

24. 你的老板如果在出差，你联系不到，你该怎么办?

25. 曾经遇到过的项目中重大改变是什么，你怎么解决的?

26. 对xx公司有什么改进意见？

27. Describe a time you encountered an issue and how you fixed it.

28. 列举你最近6个月看过的技术方面的书。你常看的技术blog，常去的讨论技术的网站?

29. 你在现在公司,最大的creative idea是啥；你怎么跟teammate合作；遇到有人不合作你怎么办；

30. 有没有做过一些同事已经觉得足够好,但是你觉得还不够好的事.

31. 有没有和领导有过争执.

32. 有没有做过under deadline的项目

**********************************Amazon Principles****************************************
   1. 以重视客户为荣，以重视对手为耻
   2. 以担当为荣，以逃避为耻
   3. 以创新为荣，以复杂为耻
   4. 以多元角度为荣，以固守己见为耻
   5. 以好学好奇为荣，以不思进取为耻
   6. 以提高表现为荣，以埋没天才为耻
   7. 以严格标准为荣，以产品缺陷为耻
   8. 以大格局为荣，以小眼界为耻
   9. 以敢干为荣，以慢拍为耻
   10. 以省钱为荣，以花钱为耻
   11. 以尊重员工为荣，以端着架子为耻
   12. 以深究细节为荣，以忽视问题为耻
   13. 以反对为荣，以妥协为耻
   14. 以挺身而出为荣，以发布失败为耻
   
Leadership Principles
Our Leadership Principles aren’t just a pretty inspirational wall hanging. These Principles work hard, just like we do. 
   Amazonians use them, every day, whether they’re discussing ideas for new projects, deciding on the best solution for a customer’s 
   problem, or interviewing candidates. It’s just one of the things that makes Amazon peculiar.

Customer Obsession
   Leaders start with the customer and work backwards. They work vigorously to earn and keep customer trust. 
   Although leaders pay attention to competitors, they obsess over customers.
   1. 以重视客户为荣，以重视对手为耻

Ownership
   Leaders are owners. They think long term and don’t sacrifice long-term value for short-term results. 
   They act on behalf of the entire company, beyond just their own team. They never say “that’s not my job". 
   2. 以担当为荣，以逃避为耻

Invent and Simplify
   Leaders expect and require innovation and invention from their teams and always find ways to simplify. 
   They are externally aware, look for new ideas from everywhere, and are not limited by “not invented here". 
   As we do new things, we accept that we may be misunderstood for long periods of time.
   3. 以创新为荣，以复杂为耻

Are Right, A Lot
   Leaders are right a lot. They have strong judgment and good instincts. They seek diverse perspectives and work 
   to disconfirm their beliefs.
   4. 以多元角度为荣，以固守己见为耻

Learn and Be Curious
   Leaders are never done learning and always seek to improve themselves. They are curious about new possibilities and act to explore 
them.
   5. 以好学好奇为荣，以不思进取为耻

Hire and Develop The Best
   Leaders raise the performance bar with every hire and promotion. They recognize exceptional talent, 
   and willingly move them throughout the organization. Leaders develop leaders and take seriously their role in coaching others.  
   We work on behalf of our people to invent mechanisms for development like Career Choice.
   6. 以提高表现为荣，以埋没天才为耻

Insist on the Highest Standards
   Leaders have relentlessly high standards - many people may think these standards are unreasonably high. 
   Leaders are continually raising the bar and driving their teams to deliver high quality products, services and processes. 
   Leaders ensure that defects do not get sent down the line and that problems are fixed so they stay fixed.
   7. 以严格标准为荣，以产品缺陷为耻

Think Big
   Thinking small is a self-fulfilling prophecy. Leaders create and communicate a bold direction that inspires results. 
   They think differently and look around corners for ways to serve customers.
   8. 以大格局为荣，以小眼界为耻
   
Bias for Action
   Speed matters in business. Many decisions and actions are reversible and do not need extensive study. 
   We value calculated risk taking. 
   9. 以敢干为荣，以慢拍为耻

Frugality
   Accomplish more with less. Constraints breed resourcefulness, self-sufficiency and invention. 
   There are no extra points for growing headcount, budget size or fixed expense.
   10. 以省钱为荣，以花钱为耻

Earn Trust
   Leaders listen attentively, speak candidly, and treat others respectfully. They are vocally self-critical, 
   even when doing so is awkward or embarrassing.  Leaders do not believe their or their team’s body odor smells of perfume.  
   They benchmark themselves and their teams against the best.
   11. 以尊重员工为荣，以端着架子为耻

Dive Deep
   Leaders operate at all levels, stay connected to the details, audit frequently, and are skeptical when metrics and anecdote differ.
   No task is beneath them.
   12. 以深究细节为荣，以忽视问题为耻

Have Backbone; Disagree and Commit
   Leaders are obligated to respectfully challenge decisions when they disagree, even when doing so is uncomfortable or exhausting.
   Leaders have conviction and are tenacious. They do not compromise for the sake of social cohesion. Once a decision is determined, 
   they commit wholly.
   13. 以反对为荣，以妥协为耻

Deliver Results
   Leaders focus on the key inputs for their business and deliver them with the right quality and in a timely fashion. 
   Despite setbacks, they rise to the occasion and never settle.
   14. 以挺身而出为荣，以发布失败为耻
   
https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/ace-leadership-interview-prakash-krishnan

Do some research of the company:
1. Their product
2. Their future (why they are optimizing)
3. How they can beat their competitors
4. The future of the industry
5. Why do you want to come this company
6. Why do you want to work on this role

Do you have quesions to ask me?
For general collegue: can you describe your daily routine?
For hiring manager: what I can learn from this role?
For director: what's the expectation for this role? (also ok to ask hiring manager)
              which one do you prefer, quality or delivery (also ok to ask hiring manager)
