http://www.tutorialspoint.com/sql/sql_interview_questions.htm
1. What is the difference between SQL and MySQL?
   SQL is a language but MySQL is the rational database management system.

2. What are DDL? 
   Data Defination Language: CREATE, ALTER, DROP

3. What are DML? 
   Data Manipulating Language: SELECT, INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE

4. What are DCL?
   Data Control Language: GRANT, REVOKE

5. Is a NULL value same as zero or a blank space? 
   No, NULL is a value is not available but zero is a integeter and space is a character.

6. If a column value taking part in an arithmetic expression is NULL, then the result obtained would be NULLM.

7. What are the case manipulation functions of SQL?
   UPPER, LOWER, INITCAP

8. What is the purpose of the NVL function?
   NVL is to convert a null to a value

9. What is the difference between the NVL and the NVL2 functions?
   The NVL(exp1, exp2) function converts the source expression (or value) exp1 to the target expression (or value) exp2, 
   if exp1 contains NULL. The return value has the same data type as that of exp1.

   The NVL2(exp1, exp2, exp3) function checks the first expression exp1, if it is not null then, 
   the second expression exp2 is returned. If the first expression exp1 is null, then the third expression exp3 is returned.
   It's a more advanced versiono of NVL

10. What is the use of the NULLIF function?
   The NULLIF function compares two expressions. If they are equal, the function returns null. 
   If they are not equal, the first expression is returned.

11. Discuss the syntax and use of the COALESCE function?
   The COALESCE function has the expression COALESCE(exp1, exp2, …. expn)
   It returns the first non-null expression given in the parameter list.
   
12. Joining two tables with 20 and 10 rows respectively but forget to write the WHERE clause. What would be the result?
    Cartesian product of two tables with 20 x 10 = 200 rows.

13. What is the difference between cross joins and natural joins?
    The cross join produces the cross product or Cartesian product of two tables. 
    The natural join is based on all the columns having same name and data types in both the tables.

14. What is the purpose of the group functions in SQL? Give some examples of group functions.
    Group functions in SQL work on sets of rows and returns one result per group. 
    Examples of group functions are AVG, COUNT, MAX, MIN, STDDEV, SUM, VARIANCE.
    GROUP also considerate the duplicated rows and ignores NULL

15. What are the various multiple row comparison operators in SQL?
    IN, ALL, ANY
    
16. What happens if you omit the WHERE clause in the UPDATE statement?
    All the rows in the table are modified.

17. What happens if you omit the WHERE clause in a delete statement?
    All the rows in the table are deleted.
    
18. What is the purpose of the MERGE statement in SQL?
    UPDATE if the rows exists, or an INSERT if the row does not exist.

19. What is the difference between VARCHAR2 AND CHAR datatypes?
    VARCHAR2 represents variable length character data, whereas CHAR represents fixed length character data.
    
20. A DROP TABLE statement cannot be rolled back.

21. Which SQL statement is used to add, modify or drop columns in a database table?
    ALTER

https://www.toptal.com/sql/interview-questions
22. What does UNION do? What is the difference between UNION and UNION ALL?
    UNION merges the contents of two structurally-compatible tables into a single combined table. 
    Difference: UNION will omit duplicate records whereas UNION ALL will include duplicate records.

23. List and explain the different types of JOIN clauses? 
    Here is a picture: http://i.stack.imgur.com/VQ5XP.png
    INNER JOIN (a.k.a. “simple join”): Returns all rows for which there is at least one match in BOTH tables. 
    This is the default type of join if no specific JOIN type is specified.
    
    LEFT JOIN (or LEFT OUTER JOIN): Returns all rows from the left table, and the matched rows from the right table; 
    i.e., the results will contain all records from the left table, even if the JOIN condition doesn’t find any matching records 
    in the right table. This means that if the ON clause doesn’t match any records in the right table, the JOIN will still 
    return a row in the result for that record in the left table, but with NULL in each column from the right table.
    
    RIGHT JOIN (or RIGHT OUTER JOIN): Returns all rows from the right table, and the matched rows from the left table. 
    This is the exact opposite of a LEFT JOIN; i.e., the results will contain all records from the right table, 
    even if the JOIN condition doesn’t find any matching records in the left table. This means that 
    if the ON clause doesn’t match any records in the left table, the JOIN will still return a row in the result 
    for that record in the right table, but with NULL in each column from the left table.
    
    FULL JOIN (or FULL OUTER JOIN): Returns all rows for which there is a match in EITHER of the tables. 
    Conceptually, a FULL JOIN combines the effect of applying both a LEFT JOIN and a RIGHT JOIN; i.e., 
    its result set is equivalent to performing a UNION of the results of left and right outer queries.
    
    CROSS JOIN: Returns all records where each row from the first table is combined with each row from the second table 
    (i.e., returns the Cartesian product of the sets of rows from the joined tables). Note that a CROSS JOIN 
    can either be specified using the CROSS JOIN syntax (“explicit join notation”) 
    or (b) listing the tables in the FROM clause separated by commas without using a WHERE clause to 
    supply join criteria (“implicit join notation”).

24. You can't use NULL = NULL, you should use NULL IS NULL

25. What is a key difference between Truncate and Delete?
    Truncate is used to delete table content and the action can not be rolled back, 
    whereas Delete is used to delete one or more rows in the table and can be rolled back.
    
26. What is the difference between the WHERE and HAVING clauses?
    When GROUP BY is not used, the WHERE and HAVING clauses are essentially equivalent.
    However, when GROUP BY is used:
    The WHERE clause is used to filter records from a result. The filtering occurs before any groupings are made.
    HAVING clause is used to filter values from a group (i.e., to check conditions after aggregation into groups has been performed).
